[blog] 2019 in review and beyond (#19478)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/company/software-engineer/software-engineer.md

## Details of the Role

- Type of work: Contractor (long mission, full-time, convertible to an employee position)
- Start date: Immediately
- Location: Remote (preference for UTC-5 to UTC+4) or Paris

## Why we’re hiring

Both our open source products / community and our premium products are [growing fast](https://www.rank2traffic.com/material-ui.com) and we need talented engineers to keep that going!

We need help improving the health of Material-UI open source: make the library easier to use, make it support more use cases, improve performance, make it more accessible, make it easier to customize. We also need help keeping up with the community, guiding developers to answers, and just generally being a positive presence in the open source community.

We also need to develop our premium content. We have a premium themes and templates marketplace, and soon premium components bundled under a Material-UI Pro offering.

## Why this is interesting

> Our solution is empowering React developers to build awesome applications. It should be easy, it shouldn’t require any advanced technical skills. Hundreds of thousands of developers use Material-UI every month. Let’s reach the full potential.

Author: I think that the difference is in the considered period. Here we mention a month, in the "About Us" section, it's a fuzzy longer period.

- **Reduce friction**. A large amount of the work of Material-UI is reducing friction and making it easier to use. This might involve careful API design, identifying and fixing top bugs, creating easier-to-use error messages, and writing documentation and blog posts about features you ship.
- **Collaborate with the community**. Many small as well as meaningful fixes and features have been contributed by the community. Your role as a core team maintainer is to draw the best out of the community — to inspire those across the world to create and contribute through your reviews of their issues and pull requests.
- **Experiment and play**. Great, unexpected features and heisenbug fixes on the team have come from a number of sources — relentlessly methodical processes of elimination, free-flowing team collaboration, inspiration by adjacent libraries and projects, and difficult-to-explain individual strokes of brilliance. Whatever your preferred style is for creating new things that others might not have thought of, you’ll find a welcome home on the team.

> On the premium side:

Author: This is an interesting change. It narrows the focus down to the advanced features; putting the store aside. But I guess we should keep it simple, what's the topic we need the most help with? Our core value proposition :).

- **Take ownership of features from idea/mockup to live deployment**. You’ll shape and guide the direction of crucial new features, including new components.
- **Ship. Early and often**. You’ll iterate and ship frequently. You’ll have a real impact on the end-user experience and you’ll love working on a team that builds stunning UIs and prioritizes delivering real user value as often as possible.

## Experience you should have

- **Expertise in the modern JavaScript ecosystem**. Material-UI is built on the shoulders of giants, making use of technologies like ES2015+, TypeScript, Node.js, React, Next.js, webpack, and Babel.

> - **A track record demonstrating an eye for design and solving real world user problems**. If you have a knack for shipping beautiful, intuitive software, we want you on our team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **A track record of demonstrating an eye for design and solving real world user problems**. If you have a knack for shipping beautiful, intuitive software, we want you on our team.
```

- **Experience building and shipping production code in a team setting** with a passion for writing tested, performant, and high-quality code.

> - **Strong written and verbal communication skills**. As part of our open source team, you’d interface both directly and indirectly with community members, and contribute to user documentation. Clear communication is fundamental in creating intuitive and compelling resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Strong written and verbal communication skills**. As part of the team, you’ll interface both directly and indirectly with community members and enterprise customers, and contribute to user documentation. Clear communication is fundamental in creating intuitive and compelling resources.
```

- **Ability to dive into complex problems**. You should be able to quickly assess, understand, and iterate upon aspects of our codebase.

> - **Ready and willing to ask and answer questions**. If you’re comfortable saying you’re unsure, asking for help, and reaching out to assist others, you’ll be an incredible addition to our team. Our team thrives because of continuous learning. First time mistakes should be celebrated, not blamed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Ready and willing to ask and answer questions**. If you’re comfortable saying you’re unsure, asking for help; but equally reaching out to assist others, you’ll be an incredible addition to our team. We thrive because of continuous learning. First time mistakes should be celebrated, not blamed.
```

- **Avoid monolithic deliverables**. You scope and stage your work into well-defined milestones to ship.
- **Past work with frontend infrastructure**. Perhaps you’ve created your company’s design system, written a babel plugin, or written complex React components. It would be great if you could address this in your cover letter!

## Experience it would be nice if you had, but isn’t required

> - **You’ve maintained an active repository before**. Maybe you’ve helped maintain a popular open source repo, or maybe you’ve worked on internal repos that saw contributions from multiple teams. Previous experience with highly active repo workflows is a definite plus for this role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **You’ve maintained an active repository before**. Maybe you’ve helped maintain a popular open source repo, or perhaps you’ve worked on internal repos that saw contributions from multiple teams. Previous experience with highly active repo workflows is a definite plus for this role.
```

- **You have used Material-UI before**. You have built a non trivial application with Material-UI in the past. You know the limitations of the library, you know a few areas that could be improved.
- **You have contributed code to Material-UI before**. A history of contributing to Material-UI would be a definite plus.

## The best parts of this job

- **You’ll be at the cutting edge of application development** — working on one of the fastest-growing UI frameworks on the market.
- **You’ll be part of an active, open, friendly community** of developers that are really excited about building awesome applications.

> - **Your role will be key to making Material-UI the go to UI framework solution** for building applications and design systems with React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your role will be key to making Material-UI the go to UI framework** for building applications and design systems with React.
```

## The worst parts of this job

> - **Shifting context.** You may necessarily have to shift context and dive into a different feature before the current one is done. It may even be in an area of the code base you’re unfamiliar with or don’t have a ton of understanding about. It’s fun, rewarding work, but it can be very challenging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Shifting context.** You will necessarily have to shift context and dive into a different feature before the current one is done. It may even be in an area of the code base you’re unfamiliar with or don’t have a ton of understanding about. It’s fun, rewarding work, but it can be very challenging.
```

> - **We move quickly, but don’t sacrifice quality**. We ship. Early, often, and quickly. You may not be initially comfortable with the cadence with which we ship high-quality features and improvements to end users. By doing so, we give up on solving each problem at 100%. Solving 50-70% with quality should be enough for any given iteration. Our users manifest themselves, they quickly tell us when we don’t push a solution far enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **We move quickly, but don’t sacrifice quality**. We ship early, often, and quickly. You may not be initially comfortable with the cadence with which we ship high-quality features and improvements to end users. By doing so, we sacrifice on solving each problem 100% in exchange for fast feedback. Solving 50-70% of the issue with quality should be enough for any given iteration. Our users quickly tell us when we haven't pushed a solution far enough.
```

> - **Material-UI is a large codebase**. You may bang your head against the wall at times, and then write tests to assist future you.

Reviewer: Smiley? (Sounds a but psychotic otherwise!)
